In bidi default strategy, make steps consistent with each other (#969)
unicode-org/message-format-wg: spec/formatting.md

Implementations MAY supply a _bidirectional isolation strategy_ that performs no processing.

> The _Default Bidi Strategy_ is defined as a function `B` from expressions

Reviewer: Linkify _expressions_.

This is weird? Where does `B` come from? Why is it a "function"? The text above this talks about "bidirectional isolation strategies". I think this needs to be different.

Perhaps:

> The _Default Bidi Strategy_ is defined as follows:
>
> 1. Let `out` be an empty string to contain the formatted output of the _message_
> 1. Let `msgdir`...
> 1. For each _expression_ `exp` in the _pattern_:
>    1. If `exp` is a plain literal (text), append `exp` to `out`.
>    1. If `exp` is an _placeholder_, let `fmt` be the formatted string representation of
>       the _resolved value_ of `exp`.
>    1. Let `dir` be the directionality of `fmt`...
>     // etc.
>     1. Append `fmt` to `out`.
> 1. Emit `out` as the formatted output of the _message_.

Note that we don't have a name for the non-placeholder bits of text in a pattern. I call them expressions here, but they aren't really expressions.

It would be even better if the section on formatting just above here defined how to make the string output. The "bidi strategy" then could be reference in that set of instructions (_"apply the appropriate bidirectional isolation strategy to the contents of expression"_)

Author: I rewrote this imperatively instead of as a function. I also did a rewrite to call the components of a pattern a "part", and distinguish between text parts and placeholder parts.

The _Default Bidi Strategy_ is defined as follows:

1. Let `out` be the empty string.
1. Let `msgdir` be the directionality of the whole message,
   one of « `'LTR'`, `'RTL'`, `'unknown'` ».
   These correspond to the message having left-to-right directionality,
   right-to-left directionality, and to the message's directionality not being known.
1. For each part `part` in _pattern_:
   1. If `part` is a plain literal (text) part, append `part` to `out`.
   1. Else:

>        1. Assert `part` is a _placeholder_.
>        1. Let `exp` be `part`.
>        1. Let `fmt` be the formatted string representation of the _resolved value_ of `exp`.

Reviewer: This exposes a problem, in that a _placeholder_ can be an _expression_ or _markup_. We need to handle _markup_ here. Perhaps:

```suggestion
       1. Assert `part` is a _placeholder_.
       1. If `part` is _markup_, append the _resolved value_ of `part` to `out`.
          Note that this is normally the empty string.
       1. Else:
          1. Let `fmt` be the formatted string representation of the _resolved value_ of `part`.
```

The _Default Bidi Strategy_ is defined as follows:

1. Let `out` be the empty string.
1. Let `msgdir` be the directionality of the whole message,
   one of « `'LTR'`, `'RTL'`, `'unknown'` ».
   These correspond to the message having left-to-right directionality,
   right-to-left directionality, and to the message's directionality not being known.
1. For each part `part` in _pattern_:
   1. If `part` is a plain literal (text) part, append `part` to `out`.
   1. Else:
       1. Assert `part` is a _placeholder_.
       1. If `part` is _markup_, append the _resolved value_ of `part` to `out`.
          Note that this is normally the empty string.

>        1. Else:

Reviewer 2: This could be structured a bit differently to specify the assertion, and drop one indentation level from everything that follows. Also, let's not presume that the resolved value of markup is directly a string.
```
    1. Else if `part` is a _markup_ _placeholder_:
        1. Let `fmt` be the formatted string representation of the _resolved value_ of `part`.
           Note that this is normally the empty string.
        1. Append `fmt` to `out`.
    1. Else:
        1. Assert that `part` is an _expression_.
        1. ...
```

Author: Done as part of [e9afb9d](https://github.com/unicode-org/message-format-wg/pull/969/commits/e9afb9d592c8983028977f3e3570f1a97222e1f6)

          1. Let `fmt` be the formatted string representation of the _resolved value_ of `part`.
          1. Let `dir` be the directionality of `fmt`,
             one of « `'LTR'`, `'RTL'`, `'unknown'` », with the same meanings as for `msgdir`.
          1. Let the boolean value `isolate` be
             True if the `u:dir` _option_ of the _resolved value_ of `exp` has a value other than `'inherit'`,
          or False otherwise.
          1. If `dir` is `'LTR'`:

>               1. If `msgdir` is `'LTR'`
>                  and `isolate` is False,
>                  append `fmt` to `out`.

Reviewer 2: It's clearer if we stick to the same style.

```suggestion
              1. If `msgdir` is `'LTR'` and `isolate` is False:
                  1. Append `fmt` to `out`.
```

Author: Done as part of [e9afb9d](https://github.com/unicode-org/message-format-wg/pull/969/commits/e9afb9d592c8983028977f3e3570f1a97222e1f6)

      True if the `u:dir` _option_ of the _resolved value_ of `exp` has a value other than `'inherit'`,
      or False otherwise.
   1. If `dir` is `'LTR'`:

>       1. If `msgdir` is `'LTR'`

Reviewer: I think this is a good change, in that it is clearer. `msgdir` is whatever it is.

         and `isolate` is False,

>          append `fmt` to the formatted output.

Reviewer: The other steps don't do append. They talk about what `fmt` contains (e.g. "prefix `fmt` with...")

The change we should be making should actually be earlier. Something like:

> 2. For each expression `exp` in _pattern_:
>    i. Let `fmt` be the formatted string representation of the _resolved value_ of `exp` to be appended to the formatted output.

>          let the formatted output be `fmt` itself.

Reviewer: This change implies replacing _all_ of the formatted output with `fmt`, not just replacing `exp` with the contents of `fmt`. So I would not make this change.

Author: Ah, yes. Fixed in [39e9056](https://github.com/unicode-org/message-format-wg/pull/969/commits/39e9056592d0aa4bfe8da978ee646f0f6737e751)
